docs/docs/99-cmd/knowledge_askdir.md, before:

---
title: "knowledge askdir"
---
## knowledge askdir

Retrieve sources for a query from a dataset generated from a directory

```
knowledge askdir [--path <path>] <query> [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --auto-migrate string               Auto migrate database ($KNOW_DB_AUTO_MIGRATE) (default "true")
      --concurrency int                   Number of concurrent ingestion processes ($KNOW_INGEST_CONCURRENCY) (default 10)
  -c, --config-file string                Path to the configuration file ($KNOW_CONFIG_FILE)
      --dsn string                        Server database connection string (default "sqlite://$XDG_DATA_HOME/gptscript/knowledge/knowledge.db") ($KNOW_DB_DSN)
      --embedding-model-provider string   Embedding model provider ($KNOW_EMBEDDING_MODEL_PROVIDER) (default "openai")
      --flow string                       Flow name ($KNOW_FLOW)
      --flows-file string                 Path to a YAML/JSON file containing ingestion/retrieval flows ($KNOW_FLOWS_FILE)
  -h, --help                              help for askdir
      --ignore-extensions string          Comma-separated list of file extensions to ignore ($KNOW_INGEST_IGNORE_EXTENSIONS)
      --no-recursive                      Don't recursively ingest directories ($KNOW_NO_INGEST_RECURSIVE)
  -p, --path string                       Path to the directory to query ($KNOWLEDGE_CLIENT_ASK_DIR_PATH) (default ".")
      --server string                     URL of the Knowledge API Server ($KNOW_SERVER_URL)
  -k, --top-k int                         Number of sources to retrieve ($KNOWLEDGE_CLIENT_ASK_DIR_TOP_K) (default 10)
      --vector-dbpath string              VectorDBPath to the vector database (default "$XDG_DATA_HOME/gptscript/knowledge/vector.db") ($KNOW_VECTOR_DB_PATH)
```

### SEE ALSO

* [knowledge](knowledge.md)	 -

Commit message:

add: remote loader for git + gitignore-style file support (#52)
- git remote loader
- `--ignore-file`
- `--include-hidden`
- fixes bug where knowledge tried to create the dataset twice

docs/docs/99-cmd/knowledge_askdir.md, after:

---
title: "knowledge askdir"
---
## knowledge askdir

Retrieve sources for a query from a dataset generated from a directory

```
knowledge askdir [--path <path>] <query> [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --auto-migrate string               Auto migrate database ($KNOW_DB_AUTO_MIGRATE) (default "true")
      --concurrency int                   Number of concurrent ingestion processes ($KNOW_INGEST_CONCURRENCY) (default 10)
  -c, --config-file string                Path to the configuration file ($KNOW_CONFIG_FILE)
      --dsn string                        Server database connection string (default "sqlite://$XDG_DATA_HOME/gptscript/knowledge/knowledge.db") ($KNOW_DB_DSN)
      --embedding-model-provider string   Embedding model provider ($KNOW_EMBEDDING_MODEL_PROVIDER) (default "openai")
      --flow string                       Flow name ($KNOW_FLOW)
      --flows-file string                 Path to a YAML/JSON file containing ingestion/retrieval flows ($KNOW_FLOWS_FILE)
  -h, --help                              help for askdir
      --ignore-extensions string          Comma-separated list of file extensions to ignore ($KNOW_INGEST_IGNORE_EXTENSIONS)
      --ignore-file string                Path to a .gitignore style file ($KNOW_INGEST_IGNORE_FILE)
      --include-hidden                    Include hidden files and directories ($KNOW_INGEST_INCLUDE_HIDDEN)
      --no-create-dataset                 Do NOT create the dataset if it doesn't exist ($KNOW_INGEST_NO_CREATE_DATASET)
      --no-recursive                      Don't recursively ingest directories ($KNOW_NO_INGEST_RECURSIVE)
  -p, --path string                       Path to the directory to query ($KNOWLEDGE_CLIENT_ASK_DIR_PATH) (default ".")
      --server string                     URL of the Knowledge API Server ($KNOW_SERVER_URL)
  -k, --top-k int                         Number of sources to retrieve ($KNOWLEDGE_CLIENT_ASK_DIR_TOP_K) (default 10)
      --vector-dbpath string              VectorDBPath to the vector database (default "$XDG_DATA_HOME/gptscript/knowledge/vector.db") ($KNOW_VECTOR_DB_PATH)
```

### SEE ALSO

* [knowledge](knowledge.md)	 -
